welcome to lesson 1 in the next few
minutes you will learn the single most
important feature in weather defender
that can keep you and your family safe
and alive in a weather emergency at the
end of this tutorial you will know how
to use the alert perimeter feature to
create safe zones around your home your
neighborhood and your community so that
you will know about predatory weather
before it's too late let's get started
if you have not already watched the
interface primer we highly recommend
watching it first you can pause this
lesson now and follow the link on this
page to watch the interface primer
tutorial then return to this lesson when
you are finished the first time you
start whether defender you should see a
map centered on your region of the
country with a house icon at the center
this is your home location based on the
address you entered when creating your
account if you do not see a house icon
or the map is not displaying the correct
region you may change your home location
by selecting the set home tool from the
map tool bar then click anywhere on the
map to set your new home location
alternately you may set your home
location by entering the latitude and
longitude coordinates or the street
address if you select one of these
options from the set home menu
now that our home indicator is confirmed
we will create a perimeter around that
location first select the perimeter tool
from the map tool bar now position your
mouse so that the little arrow in the
upper left of the cursor is over the
center of your home location press and
hold the left mouse button and move the
mouse outward away from your home as you
drag your mouse a green circle is
displayed with corresponding range and
miles this is your perimeter boundary
you can set it to any range you want
however 20 to 40 miles is plenty large
to give you sufficient warning for most
storms now release the left mouse button
to create your perimeter next a screen
will display with several fields this is
where we will select the types of
threats to monitor and how we want to be
alerted first enter a nickname for this
perimeter that will be used in alert
notifications then in the box below
select the type of threat or threats you
want to be notified about for example if
i lived in tornado alley i would want to
know when tornadic storms are coming I
will select the government issued
tornado warnings and watches but I'm
also going to select heavy rain because
sometimes government warnings are issued
after a tornado has already touched down
and I want to know for myself when heavy
thunderstorms are inside my perimeter
next select how to receive the alerts
options include audible alarm or sound
effect on screen messages or email or
SMS text to my phone you can test the
alert method by clicking the test button
sounds good as long as I'm within
earshot of this computer I'll know when
severe storms are entering my perimeter
click OK to save your settings now you
will see your perimeter on screen
indicated by a green circle you may edit
your perimeter settings by moving your
mouse cursor over the center of the
perimeter and selecting settings on the
menu
this concludes lesson 1 in this tutorial
we covered how to set or move your home
indicator on the map and how to create
perimeters around your home location so
that you will be notified when specific
threats are entering your safe zone
thanks for watching you have just taken
a significant step towards improving
your security and awareness of severe
weather and protecting those who depend
on you